# 10.1109/TVCG.2015.2392771

Authors: Y. Tanahashi, and C. -H. Hsueh, and K. -L. Ma
Checked By: Alex, Henry
Description of layout algorithm: Similar as in [Tanahashi, 2012] Pipeline approach. slots are used to as-
sign interaction sessions, as in [Tanahashi, 2012]. First, a greedy heuristic is
used to assign these slots such that there are few wiggles and
crossings. Then, crossings are minimized by greedily assign-
ing order from last timestep to the next for shared characters.
Non-shared are appended at the end. Wiggle count is min-
imized with longest common subsequence. Wiggle height is
minimized with quadratic programming, adapting [Storyflow, 2013]. At the
end a local search is used, to move location sessions between
slots. The authors claim that the layout process is for streaming data (where new timesteps may be added at the end). I am not sure though if the layout algorithm is majorly different from one that is not dealing with streaming data.
Constraints / Assumptions: Equidistant interaction characters, Interaction grouping, Minimum character separation
Domain: Movies/Books
Evaluation: Benchmarks, Quantitative metrics (crossings etc)
Exclude?: No
Keep: Yes
Layout Method fully described in paper: Yes
Method Type: Exact - Linear Programming, Heuristic - Longest Common Subsequence wiggle count minimization, Heuristic - Sugiyama-like ordering, Heuristic - greedy, Heuristic - local search, Pipeline
Optimization Objectives: Compactness - limit whitespace, Crossings - pair crossings, Wiggles/Bends - wiggle count
Source: IEEE
Special features: For streaming data, Slots
Temporal Model: Discrete, Interaction duration, Non-persistent characters
Title: An Efficient Framework for Generating Storyline Visualizations from Streaming Data
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7015617
Venue: IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics
Visual/Structural features supported: Labels - characters
Year: 2015