# 10.1109/TVCG.2024.3456373

Authors: Y. -H. Kuo, and D. Liu, and K. -L. Ma
Checked By: Alex, Henry
Description of layout algorithm: Egocentric storyline of a ego network, ego is straight line. Distinction between 1-alters and 2-alters. Stronger ties are closer to the ego.  Those receiving to ego are below, those sending above. So the ordering is nearly determined by the Data. The layout generation adapts storyflow: The 2-alters that still can change their order are sorted by barycenter. Wiggle count is still minimized with lcs, but ego needs to stay straight.
The compaction step is different from storyflow: A greedy algorithm is used to compact and make lines more straight, the description is not reproducible.
Constraints / Assumptions: Interaction grouping, Protagonist, Straight protagonist
Domain: Authorship network, Disease outbreak, Social - other
Evaluation: Look at picture (paper says case study), User study
Exclude?: No
Keep: Yes
Layout Method fully described in paper: Yes
Method Type: Heuristic - Longest Common Subsequence wiggle count minimization, Heuristic - Sugiyama-like ordering, Heuristic - greedy white space reduction, Pipeline
Optimization Objectives: Compactness - limit whitespace, Crossings - pair crossings, Wiggles/Bends - wiggle count
Source: IEEE
Special features: Protagonist
Temporal Model: Discrete, Non-persistent characters
Title: SpreadLine: Visualizing Egocentric Dynamic Influence
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=10680192
Venue: IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics
Visual/Structural features supported: Labels - characters, Multivariate data encoding
Year: 2025